tasks/face_segmentation/README.md, before:

# Face Segmentation

The purpose of this example/tutorial is to demonstrate how to perform multi-objective NAS for image segmentation models
using Archai. This approach allows us to optimize the model's performance with respect to multiple objectives, such as
Intersection Over Union (IOU) and inference time for various deployment targets. Specifically, we will focus on
performing the search for both regular CPU targets and Qualcomm's Snapdragon processor, enabling us to optimize the
models for deployment on mobile devices as well.

## Dataset

We will use the [Face Synthetics dataset](https://github.com/microsoft/FaceSynthetics) for this example. The dataset
comprises 100,000 512x512 synthetic face images, each annotated with 19 per-pixel semantic segmentation labels. These
labels cover various aspects of the face, including background, skin, eyes, ears, nose, lips, clothing, and headwear.

![Face Synthetics](assets/face_synthetics.png)

## Search Space

The search space used for this example is based on the [Stacked HourglassNet
architecture](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.06937). The search space consists in 3 different block types: `downsample`,
`upsample` and `skip`, with each block type containing one or more possible operations. Additionally, `downsample`
blocks also control the number of channels.

![HourglassNet search space](assets/search_space.png)

## Neural Architecture Search

To run a search job, use the following command

```shell
python3 search.py --dataset_dir [face_synthetics_dir] --output_dir [output_dir] --search_config [search_config_file]
```

Use `--search_config` to specify the search config file with the desired search settings. We provide two basic search
configurations based on the desired target (CPU or Snapdragon processor), `search.py` will use
[cpu_search.yaml](confs/cpu_search.yaml) if no search config file is passed.

* [cpu_search.yaml](confs/cpu_search.yaml)
* [snp_search.yaml](confs/snp_search.yaml)

Note: to use `snp_search.yaml` you will need to follow the [Azure ML setup instructions](aml/readme.md).

By default, `search.py` will run multiple partial training jobs using Ray (2 jobs per GPU). To change the number of gpus
per job, set `--gpus_per_job`, or use the `--serial_training` flag to disable parallel training jobs altogether.

The pareto architecture files selected by the search algorithm can be found under `[output_dir]/pareto_models_iter_XX`.
A table with the partial training performance and other objectives can be found in the
`[output_dir]/search_state_XX.csv` file.

## Final Training

To fully train one of the selected architectures by the NAS algorithm use the following command

```shell
python3 train.py [path_to_final_architecture.json] --dataset_dir [face_synthetics_dir] --output_dir [output_dir] --epochs [n_epochs]
```

## NAS Results (CPU Target)

### Search

![pareto_evolution](assets/pareto_evolution.png)

The selected architectures for the search with the `cpu_search.yaml` config file can be found in the
[archs/cpu_target/](arch/cpu_target/) directory or in the table below.

### Final Training

The table below shows the final results after fully training the final pareto architectures for 30 epochs using the
[train.py](./train.py) script.

| Architecture                                                                                    |   Search iteration   |   ONNX Latency (s)   |   Full training Validation mIOU |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------:|---------------------:|--------------------------------:|
| [d650d48bdc83e75ae6ace9f20c17caa65fb5048a](archs/cpu_target/d650d48bdc83e75ae6ace9f20c17caa65fb5048a.json) |   9                  |                0.070 |                            0.88 |
| [07d670b8f76d8b9ca1e39379798d8b0046695b6a](archs/cpu_target/07d670b8f76d8b9ca1e39379798d8b0046695b6a.json) |   6                  |                0.035 |                            0.87 |
| [0cf2105627cd8ef8b86bdafd4987714dc2519827](archs/cpu_target/0cf2105627cd8ef8b86bdafd4987714dc2519827.json) |   8                  |                0.027 |                            0.85 |
| [1531903d654ecc930a0659e31b42c3efe6fe6ef3](archs/cpu_target/1531903d654ecc930a0659e31b42c3efe6fe6ef3.json) |   6                  |                0.022 |                            0.85 |
| [f22f089ae8c618117f4869f20213b344189bab9a](archs/cpu_target/f22f089ae8c618117f4869f20213b344189bab9a.json) |   4                  |                0.025 |                            0.84 |
| [b049ce7b41268d956af5410a3e838a2992d29232](archs/cpu_target/b049ce7b41268d956af5410a3e838a2992d29232.json) |   4                  |                0.026 |                            0.84 |
| [31cc57fe423f06a0f4d6ba000fe1e3decd3a442c](archs/cpu_target/31cc57fe423f06a0f4d6ba000fe1e3decd3a442c.json) |   8                  |                0.019 |                            0.84 |
| [1f1a7d04c4925d17f0575418cc974327ab71a93a](archs/cpu_target/1f1a7d04c4925d17f0575418cc974327ab71a93a.json) |   8                  |                0.015 |                            0.83 |
| [0c74d6d48a3514be3e80a84593c5f6b3f656fb3c](archs/cpu_target/0c74d6d48a3514be3e80a84593c5f6b3f656fb3c.json) |   8                  |                0.016 |                            0.82 |
| [1ab34d5fb31ef986650b5b112cfa3eca104b8107](archs/cpu_target/1ab34d5fb31ef986650b5b112cfa3eca104b8107.json) |   8                  |                0.018 |                            0.82 |
| [e6b8640bd2b83212e3256907a2382ae9bb799b65](archs/cpu_target/e6b8640bd2b83212e3256907a2382ae9bb799b65.json) |   5                  |                0.012 |                            0.82 |
| [82419a2ad358a34c508444c86db261616cf45ec3](archs/cpu_target/82419a2ad358a34c508444c86db261616cf45ec3.json) |   3                  |                0.011 |                            0.81 |
| [15914e86631373b2d9c823873ba6a88a1dc548c7](archs/cpu_target/15914e86631373b2d9c823873ba6a88a1dc548c7.json) |   9                  |                0.010 |                            0.77 |
| [de9067fa95074057353c67f62036a5b395a2d6a2](archs/cpu_target/de9067fa95074057353c67f62036a5b395a2d6a2.json) |   8                  |                0.009 |                            0.76 |
| [be543f6a3d1eadc9a42496f0b40871d82d4931df](archs/cpu_target/be543f6a3d1eadc9a42496f0b40871d82d4931df.json) |   8                  |                0.007 |                            0.73 |


## NAS Results (Snapdragon Target)

### Search

![pareto_evolution](assets/snp_pareto_evolution.png)

The selected architectures for the search with the `snp_search.yaml` config file can be found in the
[archs/snp_target/](arch/snp_target/) directory or in the table below.

### Final Training

The table below shows the final results after fully training the final pareto architectures for 30 epochs using the
[train.py](./train.py) script.


| Architecture                                                                                               |   Search iteration  |   SNP Quantized Latency (s)  |   Partial Training Val. IOU  |   Full training Validation mIOU |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------:|-----------------------------:|-----------------------------:|------------------:|
| [b14a1f0a3d17ea0f62022c2cf61da032fd7c9971](archs/snp_target/b14a1f0a3d17ea0f62022c2cf61da032fd7c9971.json) |                  5  |                        0.007 |                        0.769 |              0.88 |
| [946fb0e27ef6ab9659b128006697a1b5a90e674c](archs/snp_target/946fb0e27ef6ab9659b128006697a1b5a90e674c.json) |                 13  |                        0.007 |                        0.768 |              0.87 |
| [69f28a4c45aef58a67e2e2e0ce2d087b60b03173](archs/snp_target/69f28a4c45aef58a67e2e2e0ce2d087b60b03173.json) |                 12  |                        0.008 |                        0.783 |              0.87 |
| [7bd6a76ec04e9f85c27d69a48557f689b0af2037](archs/snp_target/7bd6a76ec04e9f85c27d69a48557f689b0af2037.json) |                  5  |                        0.006 |                        0.761 |              0.87 |
| [fb5511d6bee3bf52abed1527850c829cc4293098](archs/snp_target/fb5511d6bee3bf52abed1527850c829cc4293098.json) |                  7  |                        0.005 |                        0.758 |              0.86 |
| [4fca939c89bf725f9efa47606c640e302f8ae9cc](archs/snp_target/4fca939c89bf725f9efa47606c640e302f8ae9cc.json) |                 10  |                        0.004 |                        0.752 |              0.86 |
| [0ef9945b08c953586848a8507bc5d057fab7278d](archs/snp_target/0ef9945b08c953586848a8507bc5d057fab7278d.json) |                 14  |                        0.004 |                        0.749 |              0.85 |
| [81f407d6f62de129e917c6b4f58021143a5df050](archs/snp_target/81f407d6f62de129e917c6b4f58021143a5df050.json) |                  7  |                        0.003 |                        0.703 |              0.84 |
| [d47fc530a155c9c182773fc918fc3f17ed27a9d5](archs/snp_target/d47fc530a155c9c182773fc918fc3f17ed27a9d5.json) |                 13  |                        0.003 |                        0.712 |              0.84 |
| [2aa378e5fad84ecc2114f8855a2cd8b02658cbdc](archs/snp_target/2aa378e5fad84ecc2114f8855a2cd8b02658cbdc.json) |                 14  |                        0.003 |                        0.709 |              0.84 |
| [a223144f3b12adf3144478e5060bd99ef2a64ae9](archs/snp_target/a223144f3b12adf3144478e5060bd99ef2a64ae9.json) |                 13  |                        0.003 |                        0.693 |              0.83 |
| [115fc8c962797a6dfd9c3f24fd5ccb4b60df95df](archs/snp_target/115fc8c962797a6dfd9c3f24fd5ccb4b60df95df.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.682 |              0.83 |
| [206e6e499eca01389b46c46989588ff04a2f3a42](archs/snp_target/206e6e499eca01389b46c46989588ff04a2f3a42.json) |                 14  |                        0.003 |                        0.688 |              0.83 |
| [230f1fe115fac89432f5bccad7a01c65e3bb2918](archs/snp_target/230f1fe115fac89432f5bccad7a01c65e3bb2918.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.666 |              0.82 |
| [78c76774f378e083c788e56e86978f6d1d9f267c](archs/snp_target/78c76774f378e083c788e56e86978f6d1d9f267c.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.659 |              0.82 |
| [604ee54bcc767722bbdd3a610246aadca5a32214](archs/snp_target/604ee54bcc767722bbdd3a610246aadca5a32214.json) |                 11  |                        0.003 |                        0.657 |              0.82 |
| [c570e333fd94f2d514eb1955fafc9eeeb012e750](archs/snp_target/c570e333fd94f2d514eb1955fafc9eeeb012e750.json) |                  9  |                        0.003 |                        0.636 |              0.80  |
| [4786c03a18be281ad2fed235c86a5fe952fb4b0a](archs/snp_target/4786c03a18be281ad2fed235c86a5fe952fb4b0a.json) |                  9  |                        0.002 |                        0.562 |              0.79 |

Commit message:

Finalize the AML test run (#236)
* Add a --test option that runs only the data prep step to test the environment is working.

* force train.py to grab the lock on the row (removing rare failure case).

* Fix snpe kubernetes scaling using the anti-node affinity pattern.
Publish new docker image.
Add mlflow integration to train.py.

* Add script that does full training pipeline for final pareto models.

* add iteration 7

* add iteration 9

* switch to bokeh so I can get nice tooltips on each dot in the scatter plot.

* add axis titles.

* Add device F1 scoring to train_pareto
Add more to readmes.

* add image

* Add helper script to do final F1 scoring on Qualcomm devices.

* fix lint errors.

* fix bugs

tasks/face_segmentation/README.md, after:

# Face Segmentation

The purpose of this example/tutorial is to demonstrate how to perform multi-objective NAS for image segmentation models
using Archai. This approach allows us to optimize the model's performance with respect to multiple objectives, such as
Intersection Over Union (IOU) and inference time for various deployment targets. Specifically, we will focus on
performing the search for both regular CPU targets and Qualcomm's Snapdragon processor, enabling us to optimize the
models for deployment on mobile devices as well.

## Dataset

We will use the [Face Synthetics dataset](https://github.com/microsoft/FaceSynthetics) for this example. The dataset
comprises 100,000 512x512 synthetic face images, each annotated with 19 per-pixel semantic segmentation labels. These
labels cover various aspects of the face, including background, skin, eyes, ears, nose, lips, clothing, and headwear.

![Face Synthetics](assets/face_synthetics.png)

## Search Space

The search space used for this example is based on the [Stacked HourglassNet
architecture](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.06937). The search space consists in 3 different block types: `downsample`,
`upsample` and `skip`, with each block type containing one or more possible operations. Additionally, `downsample`
blocks also control the number of channels.

![HourglassNet search space](assets/search_space.png)

## Neural Architecture Search

To run a search job, use the following command

```shell
python3 search.py --dataset_dir [face_synthetics_dir] --output_dir [output_dir] --search_config [search_config_file]
```

Use `--search_config` to specify the search config file with the desired search settings. We provide two basic search
configurations based on the desired target (CPU or Snapdragon processor), `search.py` will use
[cpu_search.yaml](confs/cpu_search.yaml) if no search config file is passed.

* [cpu_search.yaml](confs/cpu_search.yaml)
* [snp_search.yaml](confs/snp_search.yaml)


By default, `search.py` will run multiple partial training jobs using Ray (2 jobs per GPU). To change the number of gpus
per job, set `--gpus_per_job`, or use the `--serial_training` flag to disable parallel training jobs altogether.

The pareto architecture files selected by the search algorithm can be found under `[output_dir]/pareto_models_iter_XX`.
A table with the partial training performance and other objectives can be found in the
`[output_dir]/search_state_XX.csv` file.

## Running the Search on Azure ML

You can run the `aml.py` script to start the search on Azure ML and perform the
partial training in parallel also on Azure ML.

See [Azure ML setup instructions](aml/readme.md).

Note: to use `snp_search.yaml` you will also need to follow these instructions.

## Final Training

To fully train one of the selected architectures by the NAS algorithm use the following command

```shell
python3 train.py [path_to_final_architecture.json] --dataset_dir [face_synthetics_dir] --output_dir [output_dir] --epochs [n_epochs]
```

## NAS Results (CPU Target)

### Search

![pareto_evolution](assets/pareto_evolution.png)

The selected architectures for the search with the `cpu_search.yaml` config file can be found in the
[archs/cpu_target/](arch/cpu_target/) directory or in the table below.

### Final Training

The table below shows the final results after fully training the final pareto architectures for 30 epochs using the
[train.py](./train.py) script.

| Architecture                                                                                    |   Search iteration   |   ONNX Latency (s)   |   Full training Validation mIOU |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------:|---------------------:|--------------------------------:|
| [d650d48bdc83e75ae6ace9f20c17caa65fb5048a](archs/cpu_target/d650d48bdc83e75ae6ace9f20c17caa65fb5048a.json) |   9                  |                0.070 |                            0.88 |
| [07d670b8f76d8b9ca1e39379798d8b0046695b6a](archs/cpu_target/07d670b8f76d8b9ca1e39379798d8b0046695b6a.json) |   6                  |                0.035 |                            0.87 |
| [0cf2105627cd8ef8b86bdafd4987714dc2519827](archs/cpu_target/0cf2105627cd8ef8b86bdafd4987714dc2519827.json) |   8                  |                0.027 |                            0.85 |
| [1531903d654ecc930a0659e31b42c3efe6fe6ef3](archs/cpu_target/1531903d654ecc930a0659e31b42c3efe6fe6ef3.json) |   6                  |                0.022 |                            0.85 |
| [f22f089ae8c618117f4869f20213b344189bab9a](archs/cpu_target/f22f089ae8c618117f4869f20213b344189bab9a.json) |   4                  |                0.025 |                            0.84 |
| [b049ce7b41268d956af5410a3e838a2992d29232](archs/cpu_target/b049ce7b41268d956af5410a3e838a2992d29232.json) |   4                  |                0.026 |                            0.84 |
| [31cc57fe423f06a0f4d6ba000fe1e3decd3a442c](archs/cpu_target/31cc57fe423f06a0f4d6ba000fe1e3decd3a442c.json) |   8                  |                0.019 |                            0.84 |
| [1f1a7d04c4925d17f0575418cc974327ab71a93a](archs/cpu_target/1f1a7d04c4925d17f0575418cc974327ab71a93a.json) |   8                  |                0.015 |                            0.83 |
| [0c74d6d48a3514be3e80a84593c5f6b3f656fb3c](archs/cpu_target/0c74d6d48a3514be3e80a84593c5f6b3f656fb3c.json) |   8                  |                0.016 |                            0.82 |
| [1ab34d5fb31ef986650b5b112cfa3eca104b8107](archs/cpu_target/1ab34d5fb31ef986650b5b112cfa3eca104b8107.json) |   8                  |                0.018 |                            0.82 |
| [e6b8640bd2b83212e3256907a2382ae9bb799b65](archs/cpu_target/e6b8640bd2b83212e3256907a2382ae9bb799b65.json) |   5                  |                0.012 |                            0.82 |
| [82419a2ad358a34c508444c86db261616cf45ec3](archs/cpu_target/82419a2ad358a34c508444c86db261616cf45ec3.json) |   3                  |                0.011 |                            0.81 |
| [15914e86631373b2d9c823873ba6a88a1dc548c7](archs/cpu_target/15914e86631373b2d9c823873ba6a88a1dc548c7.json) |   9                  |                0.010 |                            0.77 |
| [de9067fa95074057353c67f62036a5b395a2d6a2](archs/cpu_target/de9067fa95074057353c67f62036a5b395a2d6a2.json) |   8                  |                0.009 |                            0.76 |
| [be543f6a3d1eadc9a42496f0b40871d82d4931df](archs/cpu_target/be543f6a3d1eadc9a42496f0b40871d82d4931df.json) |   8                  |                0.007 |                            0.73 |


## NAS Results (Snapdragon Target)

### Search

![pareto_evolution](assets/snp_pareto_evolution.png)

The selected architectures for the search with the `snp_search.yaml` config file can be found in the
[archs/snp_target/](arch/snp_target/) directory or in the table below.

### Final Training

The table below shows the final results after fully training the final pareto architectures for 30 epochs using the
[train.py](./train.py) script.


| Architecture                                                                                               |   Search iteration  |   SNP Quantized Latency (s)  |   Partial Training Val. IOU  |   Full training Validation mIOU |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------:|-----------------------------:|-----------------------------:|------------------:|
| [b14a1f0a3d17ea0f62022c2cf61da032fd7c9971](archs/snp_target/b14a1f0a3d17ea0f62022c2cf61da032fd7c9971.json) |                  5  |                        0.007 |                        0.769 |              0.88 |
| [946fb0e27ef6ab9659b128006697a1b5a90e674c](archs/snp_target/946fb0e27ef6ab9659b128006697a1b5a90e674c.json) |                 13  |                        0.007 |                        0.768 |              0.87 |
| [69f28a4c45aef58a67e2e2e0ce2d087b60b03173](archs/snp_target/69f28a4c45aef58a67e2e2e0ce2d087b60b03173.json) |                 12  |                        0.008 |                        0.783 |              0.87 |
| [7bd6a76ec04e9f85c27d69a48557f689b0af2037](archs/snp_target/7bd6a76ec04e9f85c27d69a48557f689b0af2037.json) |                  5  |                        0.006 |                        0.761 |              0.87 |
| [fb5511d6bee3bf52abed1527850c829cc4293098](archs/snp_target/fb5511d6bee3bf52abed1527850c829cc4293098.json) |                  7  |                        0.005 |                        0.758 |              0.86 |
| [4fca939c89bf725f9efa47606c640e302f8ae9cc](archs/snp_target/4fca939c89bf725f9efa47606c640e302f8ae9cc.json) |                 10  |                        0.004 |                        0.752 |              0.86 |
| [0ef9945b08c953586848a8507bc5d057fab7278d](archs/snp_target/0ef9945b08c953586848a8507bc5d057fab7278d.json) |                 14  |                        0.004 |                        0.749 |              0.85 |
| [81f407d6f62de129e917c6b4f58021143a5df050](archs/snp_target/81f407d6f62de129e917c6b4f58021143a5df050.json) |                  7  |                        0.003 |                        0.703 |              0.84 |
| [d47fc530a155c9c182773fc918fc3f17ed27a9d5](archs/snp_target/d47fc530a155c9c182773fc918fc3f17ed27a9d5.json) |                 13  |                        0.003 |                        0.712 |              0.84 |
| [2aa378e5fad84ecc2114f8855a2cd8b02658cbdc](archs/snp_target/2aa378e5fad84ecc2114f8855a2cd8b02658cbdc.json) |                 14  |                        0.003 |                        0.709 |              0.84 |
| [a223144f3b12adf3144478e5060bd99ef2a64ae9](archs/snp_target/a223144f3b12adf3144478e5060bd99ef2a64ae9.json) |                 13  |                        0.003 |                        0.693 |              0.83 |
| [115fc8c962797a6dfd9c3f24fd5ccb4b60df95df](archs/snp_target/115fc8c962797a6dfd9c3f24fd5ccb4b60df95df.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.682 |              0.83 |
| [206e6e499eca01389b46c46989588ff04a2f3a42](archs/snp_target/206e6e499eca01389b46c46989588ff04a2f3a42.json) |                 14  |                        0.003 |                        0.688 |              0.83 |
| [230f1fe115fac89432f5bccad7a01c65e3bb2918](archs/snp_target/230f1fe115fac89432f5bccad7a01c65e3bb2918.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.666 |              0.82 |
| [78c76774f378e083c788e56e86978f6d1d9f267c](archs/snp_target/78c76774f378e083c788e56e86978f6d1d9f267c.json) |                 10  |                        0.003 |                        0.659 |              0.82 |
| [604ee54bcc767722bbdd3a610246aadca5a32214](archs/snp_target/604ee54bcc767722bbdd3a610246aadca5a32214.json) |                 11  |                        0.003 |                        0.657 |              0.82 |
| [c570e333fd94f2d514eb1955fafc9eeeb012e750](archs/snp_target/c570e333fd94f2d514eb1955fafc9eeeb012e750.json) |                  9  |                        0.003 |                        0.636 |              0.80  |
| [4786c03a18be281ad2fed235c86a5fe952fb4b0a](archs/snp_target/4786c03a18be281ad2fed235c86a5fe952fb4b0a.json) |                  9  |                        0.002 |                        0.562 |              0.79 |
